# Depression-Level-Detection-ML-NLP-Twitter-Analysis
This Project focuses on gathering a random dataset containing depressive as well as non-depressive tweets about every type of mental health. It proceeds with a supervised machine learning approach, comparing different classifiers. The research was mainly focused on detecting the depression level of individuals and it has been focused on the issue of identifying depressive symptoms thus, it is shifted towards an unsupervised approach. Natural Language Processing (NLP) and two machine learning clustering algorithms, the K-means clustering and the Hierarchical clustering techniques are implemented and compared in this research. The outcomes suggest that K-means clustering performs more effectively. The project detects different clusters within the dataset by using K-means clustering. The analysis of these clusters reveals patterns and trends connected to depression symptoms. By detecting early signs of depression from Twitter data, mental health professionals, researchers, and organizations can intervene to provide timely support to individuals in need. This method’s scalability enables a larger audience and possible influence on mental health interventions. The project aims to contribute to the existing knowledge of depression by leveraging social media content and developing an effective approach for early detection and intervention.
## AIMS AND OBJECTIVES
- To detect depression by applying machine learning algorithms using Twitter user profiles.
- To detect the depression level of the users
- To identify user behavior and interest
- To investigate the potential for identifying trends and signs of sadness in social media posts using machine learning and NLP techniques.
